readme.md, before:

# SpeechCore

SpeechCore is a cross-platform C++ library that abstracts the process of communicating with various screen readers, managing low-level details and providing a clean, simple-to-use interface.

## Features

* Simple and intuitive API with straightforward usage
* Cross-platform support for various screen readers, with the option to support additional ones

## Installation

1. Download the matching library build for your platform from [the releases page](https://github.com/still-standing88/SpeechCore/releases).
2. Link against the library (static or shared, depending on your choice).
3. Copy the contents of the include folder to your project directory.
4. Include `SpeechCore.h` in your project.

## Building

The GitHub repo includes a Visual Studio solution and a SConstruct file. If you're using a different build system, keep the following notes in mind:

* Define either `__SPEECH_C_EXPORT` (shared) or `SPEECH_C_STATIC` (static) when compiling.
* JNI files are included for Java support. Ensure you have the required Java files, or exclude them if not needed.
* Include only platform-specific files for your target platform.
* Linux builds require the Speech Dispatcher library.
* Windows builds need to link against SAPI.LIB.
* Macos builds need to link against object library. And the AVFoundation and Foundation frameworks.
* Documentation generation requires Doxygen and Sphinx.

## Usage

Simple usage example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <SpeechCore.h>

int main() {
    Speech_Init();
    if (Speech_Is_Loaded()) {
        std::cout << "Current screen reader: " << Speech_Get_Current_Driver() << std::endl;
        std::cout << "Speaking some text" << std::endl;
        Speech_Output(L"This is a test for the SpeechCore library. If you're hearing this, it indicates the library is functioning properly.");
    }

    Speech_Free(); // Free resources when you're done.
    return 0;
}
```

See the documentation for more detailed usage examples.


# Documentation

Documentation can be found [here](https://still-standing88.github.io/SpeechCoreDocs/).

## Library Notes

* Windows screen readers (NVDA, JAWS, Zhengdu, and System Access) require specific binaries, included with the source code.
* Enhanced control over SAPI 5, including voice configuration and speech parameters.
* Braille output functionality is included but not yet implemented.

## Supported Screen Readers

* Windows: NVDA, JAWS, System Access, Zhengdu Screen Reader, SAPI 5
* macOS: AVSpeech
* Linux: Speech Dispatcher

## Bindings

Bindings are available for Python, .NET/C#, and Java.

Install python bindings via pip:
```bash
pip install speech_core
```
available  via the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/still-standing88/Py-SpeechCore).


## Credits

This library was inspired by [Tolk](https://github.com/dkager/tolk/), with adaptations for more flexibility. It was initially developed for personal projects and later expanded to be cross-platform.

## Contributions

Contributions to the library or support for additional screen readers are welcome.

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add the SPEECH_CORE_INSTALL_SCREEN_READER_APIs option, and document it in the readme

readme.md, after:

# SpeechCore

SpeechCore is a cross-platform C++ library that abstracts the process of communicating with various screen readers, managing low-level details and providing a clean, simple-to-use interface.

## Features

* Simple and intuitive API with straightforward usage
* Cross-platform support for various screen readers, with the option to support additional ones

## Installation

1. Download the matching library build for your platform from [the releases page](https://github.com/still-standing88/SpeechCore/releases).
2. Link against the library (static or shared, depending on your choice).
3. Copy the contents of the include folder to your project directory.
4. Include `SpeechCore.h` in your project.

## Building
### With CMake
You need CMake, on get it through chocolatey, scoop, apt or brue depending on your platform. Then git clone the repo and:
```bash
cmake -G Ninja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DSPEECH_CORE_SCREEN_READER_APIS=ON ..
ninja build
```
The SPEECH_CORE_INSTALL_SCREEN_READER_APIS option is optional and causes `ninja install` to copy the Windows DLLs used to interface with screen readers into the bin folder.
### Manually
* Define either `__SPEECH_C_EXPORT` (shared) or `SPEECH_C_STATIC` (static) when compiling.
* JNI files are included for Java support. Ensure you have the required Java files, or exclude them if not needed.
* Include only platform-specific files for your target platform.
* Linux builds require the Speech Dispatcher library.
* Windows builds need to link against SAPI.LIB.
* Macos builds need to link against object library. And the AVFoundation and Foundation frameworks.
* Documentation generation requires Doxygen and Sphinx.

## Usage

Simple usage example:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <SpeechCore.h>

int main() {
    Speech_Init();
    if (Speech_Is_Loaded()) {
        std::cout << "Current screen reader: " << Speech_Get_Current_Driver() << std::endl;
        std::cout << "Speaking some text" << std::endl;
        Speech_Output(L"This is a test for the SpeechCore library. If you're hearing this, it indicates the library is functioning properly.");
    }

    Speech_Free(); // Free resources when you're done.
    return 0;
}
```

See the documentation for more detailed usage examples.


# Documentation

Documentation can be found [here](https://still-standing88.github.io/SpeechCoreDocs/).

## Library Notes

* Windows screen readers (NVDA, JAWS, Zhengdu, and System Access) require specific binaries, included with the source code.
* Enhanced control over SAPI 5, including voice configuration and speech parameters.
* Braille output functionality is included but not yet implemented.

## Supported Screen Readers

* Windows: NVDA, JAWS, System Access, Zhengdu Screen Reader, SAPI 5
* macOS: AVSpeech
* Linux: Speech Dispatcher

## Bindings

Bindings are available for Python, .NET/C#, and Java.

Install python bindings via pip:
```bash
pip install speech_core
```
available  via the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/still-standing88/Py-SpeechCore).


## Credits

This library was inspired by [Tolk](https://github.com/dkager/tolk/), with adaptations for more flexibility. It was initially developed for personal projects and later expanded to be cross-platform.

## Contributions

Contributions to the library or support for additional screen readers are welcome.

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE)
